README.md, before:

# py-rpp

**py-rpp** is a Python-based RPP to EPP adapter intended for RPP-EPP compatibility testing. It converts RPP (RESTful Provisioning Protocol) requests to EPP (Extensible Provisioning Protocol) requests, and transforms EPP responses back into RPP responses. This allows systems using RPP to communicate seamlessly with EPP-based registries.

## API Endpoints

See the [OpenAPI documentation](http://localhost:8000/docs) for a complete list of available endpoints.

## OpenAPI JSON Schema

See the [OpenAPI JSON schema](http://localhost:8000/openapi.json) for the API specification.

## Running with Docker

You can build and run the RPP server using the provided `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yaml`.

### Build the Docker image

From the project root directory, run:

```sh
docker build -t sidnlabs/py-rpp:latest .
```

### Run with Docker Compose

Start the container using Docker Compose:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

### Examples

See the `examples` directory for example requests. You can use tools like `curl` or Postman to test the API endpoints.

This will build (if needed) and start the `py-rpp` container, exposing the server on port 8000 (as configured in `docker-compose.yaml`).

### Configuration

The container uses `/app/config.yaml` for configuration, which is mounted from your local directory.
You can set environment variables in the `docker-compose.yaml` file or by editing `config.yaml`.
The `rpp_epp_host` variable should point to the EPP server you want to connect to.

### Stopping the server

To stop the server, press `Ctrl+C` or run:

```sh
docker-compose down
```

## Development Setup

### Generate models from RPP XSD

This only needs to be done once, or when the XSD files change.

```sh
. ./.venv/bin/activate

xsdata generate xsd/epp-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/domain-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/contact-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/secDNS-1.1.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/rgp-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
```

### Running test server

Activate the virtual environment and run the FastAPI server:

```sh
. ./.venv/bin/activate
```

Set the configuration variables in `config.yaml`, a `config.yaml.example` is provided as a template.

Then run the FastAPI server:

```sh
fastapi dev main.py
```

Commit message:

add more docs and fix sidn extension

README.md, after:

# py-rpp

**py-rpp** is a Python-based RPP (RESTful Provisioning Protocol) to EPP (Extensible Provisioning Protocol) adapter intended for RPP-EPP compatibility testing. It converts RPP requests to EPP requests, and transforms EPP responses back into RPP responses. This allows systems using RPP to communicate seamlessly with EPP-based registries.

## How to Use

You can run easily using Docker. Once running, you can use the RPP API by sending HTTP requests to the server (see the OpenAPI docs at `/docs`).  
**Note:** 

- The API requires HTTP Basic Auth to log in, use your EPP server credentials.
- Configure the connection details for your backend EPP server in the `config.yaml` file before
- The EPP server MUST have support for TLS connections, as the RPP server will always use TLS to connect to the EPP server.

## API Endpoints

See the [OpenAPI documentation](http://localhost:8000/docs) for a complete list of available endpoints, requires server running on localhost.

## OpenAPI JSON Schema

See the [OpenAPI JSON schema](http://localhost:8000/openapi.json) for the API specification, requires server running on localhost.

## Running with Docker

You can build and run the RPP server using the provided `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yaml`.

### Build the Docker image

From the project root directory, run:

```sh
docker build -t sidnlabs/py-rpp:latest .
```

### Run with Docker Compose

Start the container using Docker Compose:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

### Examples

See the `examples` directory for example requests. You can use tools like `curl` or Postman to test the API endpoints.

This will build (if needed) and start the `py-rpp` container, exposing the server on port 8000 (as configured in `docker-compose.yaml`).

### Configuration

The container uses `/app/config.yaml` for configuration, which is mounted from your local directory.
You can set environment variables in the `docker-compose.yaml` file or by editing `config.yaml`.
The `rpp_epp_host` variable should point to the EPP server you want to connect to.

### Stopping the server

To stop the server, press `Ctrl+C` or run:

```sh
docker-compose down
```

## Development Setup

### Generate models from RPP XSD

This only needs to be done once, or when the XSD files change.

```sh
. ./.venv/bin/activate

xsdata generate xsd/epp-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/domain-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/contact-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/secDNS-1.1.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
xsdata generate xsd/rgp-1.0.xsd --package rpp.model.epp
```

### Running test server

Activate the virtual environment and run the FastAPI server:

```sh
. ./.venv/bin/activate
```

Set the configuration variables in `config.yaml`, a `config.yaml.example` is provided as a template.

Then run the FastAPI server:

```sh
fastapi dev main.py
```
